For this course, we will use TensorFlow's feature column API,
which makes a lot of data preprocessing steps standardized and easier.
For numerical features in particular,
we will leverage TensorFlow's feature column API to make normalization much easier.
If you did this work with Scikit-learn or PySpark,
you can hopefully appreciate how TensorFlow obstructs
away some of the work to prepare your features for modeling,
and also in some cases,
add some less common types of features such as cross features,
shared embeddings as well.
Now that we've gone over why we want to use a TensorFlow feature column API,
we'll focus first on numerical features.
If you need a refresher,
please refer back to the EDA section.
In order to transform numerical features,
you must first identify the fields that are numerical features,
and then we need to normalize them appropriately based off of the distribution of values.
The first step is to use
the TensorFlow dataset API that we went over before to load the dataset.
Then assuming that this is done,
we move to the next step,
using the TensorFlow feature column API function for numeric features.
What's great about this is that we can pass our own custom z-score
normalizer function as an argument to the TensorFlow feature column API,
but you can pass any normalizer function method you would like.
You can learn more about this via the link in the classroom.
This will then allow us to process data with the desired normalization.
Now that we know how to load a dataset using the TensorFlow dataset API,
we're ready to use it for building features with the TensorFlow feature column API.
As mentioned earlier, this API has some powerful,
useful functionality that can make your preprocessing much easier and more scalable.
Again, we will use the same swiss dataset,
but this time we want to calculate
some summary statistics that we will use for normalizing a numerical feature.
In particular, we want to calculate
the mean and standard deviation for
the numerical field that we're using here, which is age.
Here you can see the mean and standard deviation for the age field.
Next, we will use these two functions here to create a TensorFlow numeric column feature.
The first function here is used to normalize with a z-score,
and we use the stats we just calculated,
the mean, and standard deviation.
We use this function as a partial function and the next function,
which is create tf numeric feature.
In this function, we use the feature column APIs,
numeric column feature, add the normalizer to the normalizer argument.
The other arguments should hopefully be pretty straightforward and make sense.
But feel free to look at the TensorFlow documentation for more details.
So then we run this function and create
the TensorFlow numeric feature for age using the mean and standard deviation for age.
However, we want to make sure that it's converting things correctly.
So we take a sample here and use
a demo function here to check if it is converting the features correctly.
Note that we are using a TensorFlow function called dense features here.
We'll go over this function in more detail later, but essentially,
it is a way to combine multiple feature columns into a dense vector for models.
Looking at the output here,
you can see that is taking in the stats for the feature,
the partial normalizer function,
and you can see the output looks correct
with the scaled values coming in here in the TensorFlow.
Great. So we've now gone over how to build
a numerical feature using a customized z-score function.
This can make things much simpler for you,
and this gives you the ability to customize with other normalization functions as well.